---
layout: post
---
## To the Next Adventure

It brings me great pleasure to belatedly announce to my dear friends and family, that I have been officially accepted as a graduate student into the University of Oxford. I will begin my studies at Oxford this September, with a Master of Philosophy (MPhil) in economics.

To say that this has been a long time coming would be an understatement. This announcement marks the achievement of a dream and goal that began over six years ago.

Further, and most importantly, being accepted into Oxford is not due to the efforts of me alone. I cannot stress this enough. I was well and truly supported, motivated, inspired, mentored, and challenged to get this far. The list of people who I wish to extend my most sincere thanks and appreciation is long. Chances are, if you're reading this, you are one of the people I wish to thank.

To my amazing friends and family I grew up with, laughed with, worked with, and studied with in Perth, Osaka, Canberra, and Tokyo: **Thank you!** Thank you so much.

More recently, I wish to express my most sincere gratitude to Professor Ippei Fujiwara. One of the most dedicated, passionate, sharpest, and brightest individuals I've ever had the privilege of working with. I hope to continue his legacy and passion for research, teaching, and desire for knowledge. I've got big shoes to fill, but I approach the challenge with enthusiasm and boundless optimism.

But, it is also imperative to keep in mind that this is just another step -- another journey -- in the adventure of life. I look forward to discovering, learning, and achieving even bigger and better things -- with all your support. I am absolutely certain that there will be good times and bad times. Times where I will fall, fail, and make mistakes. I ask that you continue to tolerate, teach, and help me with whatever comes next, together.
