---
layout: post
---

## How Much is it Worth Protecting Free Speech?

Oh boy, where do we even begin with this one...

Everyone is, I think, familiar with what is happening in Hong Kong: A poorly timed bill presented by the Hong Kong government was seen as capitulation and kowtowing to Beijing. The bill was a spark, and the general economic unrest and dissatisfaction by many young Hong Kong citizens was the fuel to this bonfire.

Now, we have two behemoth US corporations stuck in the crossfire: the NBA and Apple.

First, the NBA: Houston Rockets General Manager, Daryl Morey, single handedly threw a multibillion dollar wrench into the NBA's Chinese market expansion plans after he [tweeted support for Hong Kong protestors](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-china-49995985). Morey's tweet simply read the following:

>Fight for freedom, stand with Hong Kong

It has since been deleted following a series of [backflips and "no-comment" responses from NBA Commission Adam Silver](https://www.sportingnews.com/us/nba/news/daryl-morey-hong-kong-tweet-china-nba-response-politicians/1dergufmvknmu1vdkm5t2x3pxn), and the [withdrawal of billions of dollars of funding and sponsorship deals by Chinese Communist Party (CCP) backed organisations from the NBA](https://edition.cnn.com/2019/10/08/business/daryl-morey-tweet-nba-china/index.html).

The situation is of course fully understandable, and both sides -- the NBA and the CCP -- are acting rationally. China is a growing market, many Chinese love basketball, and the CCP rules thought and online discussion with an iron fist to quell domestic political unrest. The NBA is a for-profit organisation, and it owes a duty to its shareholders and players to seek higher profits. There should be little wonder as to why ESPN has been [completely silent](https://edition.cnn.com/2019/10/09/media/espn-daryl-morey-tweet-china/index.html) on this issue -- much to the frustration of US politicians and social commentary pundits. ESPN is of course owned by Disney, and Disney is desperate to keep reaping profits from the growing Chinese entertainment market.

That brings us to Apple. The company has come under fire after it removed two apps -- [Quartz](https://www.theverge.com/2019/10/9/20907228/apple-quartz-app-store-china-removal-hong-kong-protests-censorship) and [HKmap](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/09/technology/apple-hong-kong-app.html) -- from the App Store in Hong Kong and China. CEO [Tim Cook has come out defending Apple's decision](https://www.theverge.com/2019/10/10/20908498/apple-ceo-tim-cook-hong-kong-protest-app-removed-store-email-employees-hkmaplive), stating:

>The app in question allowed for the crowdsourced reporting and mapping of police checkpoints, protest hotspots, and other information,[...] On its own, this information is benign. However, over the past several days we received credible information, from the Hong Kong Cybersecurity and Technology Crime Bureau, as well as from users in Hong Kong, that the app was being used maliciously to target individual officers for violence and to victimize individuals and property where no police are present.

You can read Cook's full email in the links provided. I, however, am skeptical to his line of reasoning. As asked by John Gruber, there are three questions raised after reading Cook's explanation:  
1) When was HKmap.live “used maliciously to target individual officers for violence”?  
2) When was it used to “victimize individuals and property where no police are present”?  
3) What local laws in Hong Kong does it violate?
None of these questions have answers on the part of Cook or the Hong Kong authorities.

Again, much like the NBA, Apple is acting rationally here. In fact, one could argue that Apple is even more dependant on China than the NBA is. However, and this may sound bizarre coming from an economist: is now the time for US corporations to be acting rationally?

There is a growing sense of resentment amongst many Americans -- and generally in the West -- toward US corporations bending and sacrificing their ethics in order to business in China. (*Although, one could argue that these corporations never had ethics or morals in the first place*) People are generally very good at spotting hypocrisy. When many major US corporations criticise President Donald Trump, decry racism, support minority communities such as the LGBT community, and proudly claim to be at the forefront of diversity movements, their deafening silence toward China's constant human rights violations and abuses becomes so much more apparent. No matter which side of the debate you sit on, it's hard to ignore the inconsistencies here.

How this all plays out remains to be seen. Somewhat ironically, China's desperation to silence discussion and debate over Hong Kong has only increased global coverage. So much so that the [CCP is now trying to calm domestic Chinese anger toward the NBA](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/10/business/china-blows-whistle-on-nationalist-protests-against-the-nba.html?smid=nytcore-ios-share). China's angst and dummyspit directed at the NBA has attracted the attention of NBA fans globally -- many who had no idea what was happening in Hong Kong are now busy Googling and reading up on what all the fuss is about. To quote a certain Princess from Aladeraan:

>The more you tighten your grip, the more systems will slip through your fingers.

There is one more thing I want to say on this matter. What's happening in Hong Kong (and West China, for that matter), and the entire dynamic between China and US corporations, affects us all. Going forward, as we all progress in our careers, many of you will have to ask yourself: how much is freedom worth? For how much money will you be willing to ignore the plight of people who have been oppressed by the CCP? For how much are you willing to be a hypocrite for?
